Thank you, everyone. Welcome. Thank you very much for coming and for participating. Again,
we will continue to follow the teaching of the gracious or genderly gracious teacher of
the Buddha Shatyamuni, and particularly, is highlighted by the Japji Duryubuji. We are
going through these essential teachings, known as Heart Advise, to the 14th students or Heart
Instruction for the 14th active practitioners. So, that is the title, and we are going on
the subject of the continuing, and I will kind of lay out, or we started with the lay out
and following the voice and the teaching of the great Master Moon Kiva, and so we divided
these kind of three frames into teaching. All the practices, those are known as the three
nobles, beginning noble as foundation, and middle noble, second noble as the prince of
part of the practices, and then third noble is the conclusion of the practices. So, these
three noble, we kind of combine our practices within this frame, then this teaching practices
is completely goes perfectly, beautifully, in order to benefit all living beings in the
same time, also actively and get enlightenment. So, this is the word of the great Master,
really the master taught us, is very practical instruction. So, we put kind of follow with
that instruction, and now is the beginning part. Beginning part, again, generally all
the teachings, whether you are studying, contemplating, meditating, all the practices, I am just
using
the practice in meditating two words, because generally meditation is actually, it also
encompasses all the practices, but generally meditation with jainting, meditation with
silence, whether that is, so that's what I am doing, kind of practices in meditation,
two different things, reality is same, and so that whatever we do, meditating activities,
that is always good, have so important to have beautiful motivation, and those are always
highlighted, and as well as all the teachings are mentioned, and which is, then joy and
appreciation, and both each other, and then devotion, so really purely understanding or
the realization of radiata teachings. So, those are generally, and particularly, also
when we are talking about three novels, this three novels, that first is motivation, and
we kiss, then I start discussing little bit of meaning of the devotion or the pain, and
then I start talking about both each other, we have been talking about both each other,
even it is taking little time to go through this, because I am going little bit, detail
each of those meanings, so that we can touch to our heart, heart and observe the meaning
to the heart. Both each other is, of course, we all know that is so important, it is a
completion, it is a wisdom, but yet how to explore the meaning, the flavor of the teaching,
so that we can put in the practices, that is my intention, going little bit, details
of this eight point. And then also, how regularly this time, the situation, we are not completely
kind of rushing to the things, because we are doing like kind of retreat, alone, with
situation, circumstances, kind of like created, as I do in retreat, we are basically also
all our way in our own places, sitting there, so we don't have to be limited by the one
weeks, or five days, or three days, something is we are kind of in a home, we are really
practicing, learning the technique of the modern, technique, we are really kind of developing
our knowledge, understanding of some really, we are clarifying our memories of all the
teachings, and all the books we read, so those are our reason, I am going little bit slowly,
all those each points. And so now, we go again, we do both together, and now, I said, yes,
today, we explained, or we went through that video about the nature of the bodhicata, nature
or identity of the bodhicata. And we made also the world meaning of the bodhicata, world
meaning of bodhicata. These names are generally very important, because when you have this
meaning of the world, it really tells the essence of the meaning, what is bodhicata
is, that mind of enlightenment. That is very, very powerful, very, very targeted title, title,
enlightened mind. Where is that enlightened mind? It's not outside. Each of us, that we
all have this enlightened mind. But we have now recognized this jewel, this preciousness,
recognized, and then have to activate it. That is what this bodhicata is.
Then with the meaning of that title, or the world meaning of the bodhicata, we learned
nature or the identity of the bodhicata. Nature and identity of the bodhicata has two
principle meanings. Compassion and the verstance, that combined. Or loving kindness,
compassion, verstance. That is really the bodhicata. And which is also our mind, our
nature of the mind. Love is our mind, compassion is our mind, verstance is our mind. That is
the one that really bodes each other. Bodhicata. But this time, not just a love, not just
a compassion, not just a verstance, we are expanding, expanding them, love and compassion.
To whom? To all the beings with six realms. That is the one, the beauty of the bodhicata.
Extending. Otherwise, everyone has love and compassion. If we put their own
surviving purposes, or our own surviving purposes, we need love, we need compassion.
With our love and compassion, we won't survive. Survive. But this time, not just
kind of talking about the surviving situations, but how to intensify, how to
glorify, how to expand the bodhicata without any border. Love without border,
compassion without border, and the wisdom that understands everything so perfectly
clear, exactly as it is. That is the deal. That is really talking, we are talking.
It is true nature. Until now, our oldest love and compassion, wisdom, are completely
limited. It is restricted. In a way, it is very narrow and kind of like old,
as restricted everywhere is borders. But this time, we are breaking that border
and extending the love and compassion beyond the borders. That is what the
bodhicata is, nature of the bodhicata. Loving kindness and compassion is projected
for all the living beings, and wisdom is projected to get enlightenment.
And this true arcane target, that is really known as bodhicata.
And now that nature, that is the identity of the bodhicata, once we do that,
then bodhicata can be divided into sub-divisions. I go over that.
And we develop the bodhicata according to the willingness of the bodhicata I
mentioned yesterday. Kings like bodhicata, shepherd like, cell like bodhicata,
shepherd like bodhicata. Those are I mentioned. Those are the, according to how
the willingness of the bodhicata, how they like to do, how they like to develop
the bodhicata and benefit for all living beings. How, particularly, how to benefit
for all the sentient beings. Kings like bodhicata, cell like bodhicata, and shepherd
like bodhicata. So those are the three sub-divisions. Now again, the bodhicata
is not just for short little time. The moment we enter the path of enlightenment,
this bodhicata goes all the way to brotherhood, enlightenment. Therefore, according
to the path in the booming, and we all heard five parts and ten boomers.
And therefore, bodhicata is intensifying each part or each booming when we advance.
And stronger, and stronger, and wider, wider, and stronger, and then it is really
developing, bodhicata. Accordingly that way, and then bodhicata also divided
whole kind of bodhicatas. And how that is? And the teachings said, first two parts.
Among the five parts that you all heard, and I'm sure you read all in the books
and everyone, that five parts, first is known as the accumulation part. Second is
the application part. So that is the true part. That true part will connect to the
first booming, first booming. And then, how many boomers? Boomi is a sense of how many
levels, and where? How many levels? That is, there is ten boomers, or ten levels.
Ten levels, everybody says, again, ten levels divided into two groups. And that is,
first seven boomers. That is, first seven boomers. And then, how many now left?
For two, maybe ten boomers. Only three booming, or three levels left. Those are
known as the last three boomers. So now, I'm again going back to, again, what I said.
The first five parts, among the five parts is first two parts will connect to the
first booming, which is, I already said, the accumulation part, application part.
That time, the bodhicata is known as the arising of carrying on, carrying up bodhicata
with the beautiful intentions or aspirations. So that is, that is what posts the
stage of the bodhicata, with the beautiful aspirations, carrying or conducting the
bodhicata with the beautiful aspirations. So that is the first and second part.
And the third now, third part, now as in, I call it part level, that you all know,
is seeing part, but I call it booming. This is now the post-booming. Post-booming
all the way to seven booming. Booming, that bodhicata is known as the, the
superior, superior intention, carrying on the bodhicata with the superior intention.
That is my translation, roughly. But of course, you can look in the different
dictionaries, how they translate it, related to that. So that is, is the bodhicata
from the first booming, ten, seven booming. Seven booming. And next, last three
boomies, which is at the booming, nine booming, ten booming, that booming or
levels of the bodhicata is known as fully ripening bodhicata, fully maturing or
fully wrapping bodhicata. That is the third state of the bodhicata.
And then, the post-bodhicata is known as bodhicata, which is completely
purified all the obscurations, all the obscurations. That bodhicata is with
the Buddhas, the enlightenment, Buddhas. Now, I will go back again to those, their
meanings. First one, this first part and the second part, why it is known as the
"alala" or "mupi-job seji" and carrying the bodhicata with beautiful intentions
or aspirations, I translate it. In the debate, it is called "mupi-job seji."
I mean, this is a very popular terminology in the Mahayana Buddhism. And as I said,
"you can look on the dictionary, you can see the whole meanings." But what that
means, the post-bodhicata, our realization is, particularly our realization of the
emptiness is on the "tiru," "tiru," not really have the perfect
realization. It's called "tiru." In the teachings said, "at the Akumarahe part,
you know the meaning of the emptiness or the absolute truth, you understood that,
you understood what that means." With courage and commitment and with inspiration,
without doubt, you continually meditate in practice, then reach for the second
part, and the Akumarahe part, and the Akumarahe part, the absolute truth,
that individually experiences the absolute truth. Now the fourth, you understand,
not now, that becomes more stronger, and then you understand the absolute truth
with some different experiences. So therefore, this time, those bodhisattva who
were the first and second, those in a part, they are still within emotions.
But yet, they have a very beautiful motivation and strong courage and
commitment, keeping up the aspiration of the bodhisattva, and therefore,
it's known as the arising beautiful motivation of bodhisattvas.
Now, when we continue to keep that practice, now what we reach? To the post booming,
or according part level, we are in the seeing part. Seeing part,
you see the true nature, or that means emptiness, exactly as it is,
particularly egolessness. Egolessness is really we see, exactly as it is,
not in theory, not just intellectual understanding, but exactly seeing that.
Particularly in the teachings, those bodhisattva meditating,
on that meditation status, there is no egos, no egos at all, completely one agent.
But in the post meditation status, there are still some kind of residues
or the subtle emotions, and therefore, it's called seeing part.
What you've been practicing at the application,
accumulation part, application part, all that time, now truly we see.
This is not just theory, it's not just presumption,
now you begin to soar, exactly, face to face, through nature,
all the emptiness, emptiness of the egos.
And in some degree, all this phenomena exists,
it's also the magic, dream, and mirages that you perceive, that realization.
And therefore, it is known as a highly superior,
superior intention, pure conduct of each other. That is then very good.
And that goes all the way to the seventh woman,
straight all the way to the seventh woman, until the seventh woman.
Then, last, the third one is, I translate it as
fully revenue of the maturity, of maturity.
What that means? Fully revenue of the aspiration of both each other.
It is really revenue. So that means all the aspirations,
all the prayers, all what we wish for the body activity
to benefit all living beings, glorify our obscurations, obstacles,
all now in the third, sorry, at the booming, in the ninth booming,
and the tenth booming is actually happening.
That ripening, maturing, wishes are coming through now, coming through.
Therefore, it is known as bodhijata of the maturing, maturing bodhijata.
And now, in the Buddha's hold, Buddha hold,
when you reach the Buddha hold, then it is known as bodhijata
that glorify all obscurations.
Now, no obscurations. Now, what kind of now bodhijata Buddha has?
Buddha has the absolute bodhijata, absolute bodhijata.
Relative to bodhijata is complete,
but this absolute bodhijata is now fully developed.
We don't need any obscurations.
Therefore, it is known as fully developed or fully modified obscurations
of bodhijata, dripping our senses in its ways.
So those are divided according to the path and the booming level of the bodhijata.
Then, bodhijata can be divided again or can be understand
in a word called true truths.
How many truths? All the truths, according to Mahayana,
can summarize into true truth, relative truth and absolute truth.
So this is true truth.
And therefore, the bodhijata can be divided into two truths.
That which is simple, relative truth, bodhijata,
and absolute truth, bodhijata.
That is, that's it, true bodhijata.
And relative truth, bodhijata also can be divided now, more true,
when particularly when we start practicing bodhijata,
then its goal is true bodhijata.
Those are known as, as you all know,
wishing bodhijata and actualizing bodhijata.
Mumbai safety and yoga safety in a debate.
True bodhijata.
Wishing bodhijata and actualizing or engaging bodhijata.
Those are true bodhijata.
Now, how we do this?
How we to carry on these bodhijata?
Wishing bodhijata.
Wishing bodhijata, generally, again,
you, as I said already, you should receive that blessing,
lineage blessing, which is also known as vows.
Those are, according to teaching,
you should get those from the qualified leader or teacher
who has that wishing bodhijata, lineage.
If somehow very difficult to help the teacher,
then you can take bodhijata vows in front of the shrines,
where the stages, stages you can take.
But do with offerings, do those ceremonies,
follow the lineage instructions and attack,
attack the bodhijata vows,
and then later, when you have the opportunity,
you should also take, reactivate or attack again with the teacher
who has those bodhijata vows,
and do that as they are called and stop.
So once we talk about bodhijata vows,
now we are going to practice.
We need to practice as I said, then true bodhijata.
Wishing bodhijata and actualizing bodhijata.
Wishing bodhijata is our intention.
Intention, I like to benefit all living beings.
Really thinking strongly and see with the comparison,
see all the sentient beings, all the living beings going through.
So many difficulties, heart and troubles, ups and don'ts.
It's just really going.
Even their intention, again, interesting to be happy, peaceful.
You are yet they are not fulfilling all that.
At the same time, not just fulfilling the same time,
but also by the unknowing situation,
they are creating more difficult troubles
that will bounce back with very strong challenges.
Their own creations, by their own mistakes.
And a simple way to tell our own mistakes,
we create so much trouble to our own self.
So thinking is good or something kind of like some solution,
some relief, whatever.
Because gain and resonate to be happy, peace and joy.
And then kind of like unskillfully, unknowingly,
we create more cause and condition to be more trouble
and more kind of challenges.
Ongoing burdens created by one's own self.
That is going on and on, on and on, endless, endless.
That wasn't extolled by the gracious teacher Bodhachaktamali,
because seeing exactly as it is.
And then in something, we know our self too,
how we go through in this samsara.
Time, we have the memories until now.
When we look back to our life stories,
we can look back to our self, how much things we don't.
Thinking is good at that time.
And it ended up being kind of endless, chaotic, and it troubles one another.
And that we do all the time.
Everyone is enjoying that.
Therefore, then by the compassion,
so really like to help all the sentient beings to fulfill their final interest,
final wish, have happy and peace, joy and fulfillment,
peace and harmonious, really wish that strongly.
I like to help and with that intention, that with that thought strongly,
and then I'm going to do the how to act.
How we can help to all the beings,
because I need more skills and more wisdom and understand.
Therefore, I'm going to practice, meditate, think of that.
So that is known as wishing Bodhachaktamali.
Now how we carry on the wishing Bodhicata.
According to it, to summarize, again to simplify,
wishing Bodhicata carried by the poor, boneless, that we all know, poor, boneless.
Boneless love, boneless compassion, boneless joy or the rejoice, and boneless economy.
With that, then Tungmin practice, which is quite popular in the West, Tungmin.
And that is what it's called.
First is equalizing myself and others, one.
The second is Tungmin, which is giving our joy and peace to the others
and taking their suffering, mentally to ourselves, and that is Tungmin.
And third is others are more important than ourselves, or one's own self.
So those three are the four boneless.
Best upon the four boneless, then this equalizing Bodhicata practices
and Tungmin practice Bodhicata, and the others are more precious and important
than one's own self, the practice of Bodhicata.
Those are all known as these seven different things.
All the numbers put seven, poor, boneless, three, those.
Three is equalizing and exchanging, Tungmin exchanging,
and others are more important than myself.
Those three makes, I think, seven.
Those are known as the training of the Wishing Bodhicata in the mental.
Those are known as Wishing, that mentally developed that.
So this is Wishing Bodhicata.
Now, this Wishing Bodhicata, great masters, in practice of lineage,
those great masters, such as Paparumuja, all those they mentioned,
and as well as all those ancient Kada masters, such as Jogwa Jehi,
and his disciples and disciples, they all completely saturated their heart,
their mind, and contact with Bodhicata, really.
Truly marvelous, beautiful.
Just their practice, their principle practice was Bodhicata.
And in their teachings, what in the teachings said,
that all this Bodhicata is a bit simplified, it comes down to the compassion.
Love and compassion, that is really Bodhicata.
Love and compassion for all living beings, our kindness and compassion.
And we bring down that again to summarize more symbolically,
then it's compassion, it comes to the compassion.
Compassion for all living beings.
If that meant to elect a simple kind of voice in a common language,
good heart, good heart.
That is what is really the Bodhicata.
Good heart, genuine good heart for all living beings without any discriminations.
This is what also in the teachings said.
For example, great master, Atisha,
he always emphasized encouraging to be good heart.
When he met students, he would say,
"Did he have good heart? Good heart."
And when he gave the instructions, he said,
"Peek good heart. To be good heart. Good heart."
In the teachings said, or in the life story said,
at one time Atisha got some uncomfortable, his hand or pen.
He got pen on his hand.
He put his arm on the left, left arm for his disciple, Dronkomba.
Dronkomba. So he put his arm on the left of the Dronkomba.
He said, "Please bless to my arm because you have good heart."
You have good heart.
That's giving blessings. If you want blessings, it's good heart.
That's really.
Atisha said to his disciple,
"Bliss my arm because you have good heart."
That is what it is.
The Bodhicata means good heart.
But good heart is not limited.
Good heart for all living beings.
That is really the bodhicata.
So therefore, kind of like to be practical of the practitioners,
of the Mahayana and Vayayana practitioners,
always trying to bring up attitude of the good heart,
love and kindness, compassion to all the living beings.
Soft and gentle, respectful. Dronk to the earth.
Humble and simple.
Those are according to the teaching,
the treasure and ornament and beauty of the practitioners.
Humble, simple, respectful and polite, kind.
And when you look to the others, also look with the eye of the kind eyes.
With love, what great teacher Bodhicata came and said,
"Spoke with love, look to the others with love."
He said with love, loving kindness.
Those are really so powerful teaching.
Simple, common, basic, but yet so powerful.
When we have this loving kind and the compassion, good heart,
that is also perfect mindfulness.
It is mindfulness.
When you have that attitude and thought in the heart and mind,
mind, every, our muscles, our nerves and stress,
and our body feels calm, peaceful, relaxed.
See, it is so, it completely can't be like another dimension of the levels
of the physical systems.
When we have the loving kind and the compassion, or good heart,
then in a normal time, all those willingness, stress fall in, worries and anxiety,
all that heart and love and kindness and compassion,
on the other hand, just simple, relaxing kind.
Definitely that even for two minutes or one minute, it really makes difference.
We can feel that.
I mean, not just talking, you can feel that.
It's not just a Buddha said and a teaching said, it's true.
We talk to ourselves.
It's not just talking some story behind the mountains,
the other side of the planet is told.
It's true, nugget, evidence, right up ourself is true.
So that is what really the wishing bodhicitta.
And again, to go through this wishing bodhicitta, then poor boneless.
I'm going to talk those poor boneless, slowly by slowly,
and one after another as turned one minute, and we go over there,
and even we didn't complete it, although just during this retreat,
we grab the perfect bite of the teachings, of the essential teachings.
Like teachings of the greatest teacher, Buddha Herkamuni,
is the big apple bites, apple bites of the blueberry bites, really truly.
Wherever you eat, it makes play.
It makes perfect.
It makes full, full satisfaction.
It is because it's touching to our heart, our neck, our beauty.
As I said, we are not talking the story behind the planet,
or the Mars, or the Jupiter, or those, the Saturns.
We are talking of our own treasures, going through one apple and the other.
How to revere, how to beautify ourself, to be beautiful for all the beings.
Again, without the earth, calm, peaceful, respect, be practical, be the common sense.
That is the meaning of the truth.
The truth of the power of the practice. Buddha Herkamuni, Gurga Maasambhava.
So that's it.
Then, Paul Boneless, again, I've listed, you all know Paul Boneless.
Boneless law, boneless compassion, boneless joy, ordinary joys, boneless equanimity.
Those are known as Paul Boneless.
We are all here.
And how that prayer goes, and as we join, every time, with Buddha's heaven, that is,
may all living beings have happiness, cause of happiness.
That is loving kindness, boneless love, prayers.
And when we join that, reflecting our mind with that meaning, meaning.
This is very powerful meditation, powerful mindfulness practices.
Really, not from life, actually, really thinking that.
May all living beings have happiness.
And then not just that, only happiness.
To stay permanent is happiness, you have to have cause and conditions.
Everything is cause and conditions.
Nothing is developing without cause and conditions.
Therefore, to create the perfect, beautiful situation
and circumstance of cause and condition, then happiness lasts forever.
Therefore, we are reaching in short-term and long-term.
Short-time, they have the happiness.
Long-term, they have the cause and condition to bring happiness.
All the living beings.
So that means what in the teaching said.
Today, we are reaching, breathing for the resolve and cause.
Result, good cause.
Cause and conditions result in happiness.
And so wishing that, really stay forever, long time.
Slowly we have time.
Join, may all living beings have, really wish that.
Strongly in heart, sitting from the heart, may all living beings have happiness.
And cause of happiness.
That is the lowing kindness, boneless love.
Then the next one is compassion.
May all living beings have, free from suffering and cause of suffering.
All living beings are free from suffering.
What they are going through right now, ups and don'ts,
in the Buddha teaching, I mean not just teaching, it's true.
Getting old, sicknesses, and deep breasts, and old hair.
And then also dying.
And then the important Buddhism that also going to birth is the big process.
There are so many challenges.
They are going right now, all this.
So that means reaching our kind of, at least we are putting intention,
as reaching both each other.
May all living beings are free from suffering.
But not just only suffering.
The cause of suffering.
Cause of that very suffering.
And the condition of that suffering.
That cause and the condition not just came by itself without cause and condition.
It has cause, it has condition.
That producing of that old situation or that troubles.
Therefore sincerely, again from the sitting heart of the both each other,
or good heart, really wishing may all living beings free from suffering.
Whatever they are going through, whatever kind of suffering they are going through.
Through everyone, free from the suffering.
And cause of suffering.
Wishing that with good heart.
Think of this, so powerful, so genuine.
So good heart.
Every used common word, language.
It is simple, practical.
Really wishing sincerely from and what it does also according to it,
is knocking down our ego cleanse and purifying our obscurations.
Ourself.
It is the very truest practices.
We building up so much energy of the good vitality of the positive
in all our system, the bodies, in all our chakras, all channels,
all our blood systems, every muscle.
And it is so powerful, so purificated.
It is big purifiers and big healers.
There is so many beautiful stories.
How those competing in the loving kind heal the suffering troubles
and purify the obscurations.
One after another.
So this is what we need, those both each other.
So wishing both each other is again, as I said,
when we practice wishing both each other,
wishing means, of course, is in the heart and the mind.
So how we activate, how we do exercise of that?
We do poor boneless.
Poor boneless.
And then once that kind gets strong, then equalizing
and turning, exchanging, and then others are even more
profusely important than once on the self.
Those are known as exercising of the opportune action
of the wishing both each other.
And that is the heart practice of foundation,
the heart practice of the bodhisattvas.
And that is my brief talk for today about bodhisattva,
and still I'm going to go.
Let me go on this tomorrow and so on.
And so thank you very much, everyone, for participating.
And again, thank you.
Thank you, everyone.
And then see you tomorrow, too.
Thank you.
And now we do, again, our short meditation.